Agite specifications
--------------------

1. General purpose
Provide a GIT graphical front end based on Afpx.
Major functions are Navigation, file status and graphical diff.

2. Detailed functions
2.1. Dir status
The main menu lists the git content and subdirs of current directory.
For file, two first characters are the status (MADRC)
(modified-unstaged/Modified/Added/Delete/OK),
then a space. For dirs 2 spaces.
Then the name, then a space, then the kind (/@>|=?).

Double click on an entry does:
- if a directory -> move to it
- if a file -> launch X editor on it
A bouton allows to switch to history of currently selected entry.
A bouton allows to launch X diff on current entry if a file and status M.
A get field list contains the current directory path.
Modifying it and Return moves current directory (or click on Go).
A bouton allows to switch to bookmarks.
A bouton allows to exit.

2.2. Bookmarks
Locations (directories) can be bookmarked.
A menu lists known bookmarks and buttons allow to:
- Go to home (returns to main)
- Go to project root (returns to main)
- go to a bookmark (returns to main)
- add current dir to bookmarks
- delete a bookmark
- return to main screen

2.3 History
The history of a file or dir is listed (Head on top), each line with the date
(YYMMDD:HHMM) a space then the comment.
Left click in list allows selecting reference version and right click selects
version to compare.
If a file, a button launches X diff from reference to version to compare.
If a dir A button launches X show on a summary of changes of reference version.
A button allows to return to main screen.

3. Interfaces
3.1. Xml configuration
See dtd
X diff tool path and args
X edit tool path and args
X show tool path and args
Bookmarks (Optional name)

3.2. Git
These functions use Command to call git and parse result.
Requires git 1.7.0 or above.
A function lists current entries and status.
- "git ls-files" => a list of current files
- "git status --uno --porcelain" => modif versus stage, for the whole box
- merge lists: apply the status to local file (discard others)
A function logs history of file or dir
- "git log --summary --name-status "
A function starts graphical diff
- "git difftool -y -m HEAD <file>" in background

3.3. Human
See Afpx.xml

4. Design aspects
At startup:
- get HOME env variable (for config file in $HOME/.agite and for bookmarks)
- get root directory. Scan from current to / until a dir '.git' is found.
- get relative path to root (to pass to git_list function)

