                            Land LEM  V2.4

1. Presentation
The goal of the game is to land the LEM on the Moon.
The LEM must touch the ground in a flat area, with reasonable horizontal and
vertical speeds, then stop its engines.
Normal mode defines at least one large flat area, hard mode (argument -h)
defines at least one narrow flat area.

2. The screen
The main area represents the space, the LEM and the ground.
The LEM must not reach the borders (up, left or right) of the space, otherwise
it is lost. The ground shows at least one flat landing area.
Around the space are the gauges. On the right, the vertical thrust and the
vertical speed. At the bottom, the remaining fuel and the horizontal speed.
The fuel gauge becomes red when reaching 20%.
The speeds are red when above acceptable values for landing. Note that the LEM
speed can be far above the speed gauges maxima without problem.
Finally, in the lower right corner, an indicator shows "APP" when close above a
landing area and "LAND" when landed. Below this indicator a chronometer
indicates the duration of the game.

3. Commands
When flying and landed, the commands are the four arrows. Each arrow activates
the corresponding engine.
Vertical arrows increase/decrease vertical thrust by a tenth each time. Down
arrow increases thrust and up arrow reduces it.
Control + down arrow applies full thrust and Control + up arrow shuts down the
engine.
Horizontal arrows apply an horizontal thrust for one second. Left arrow
activates left engine, thus increasing speed to the right. Right arrow
activates activates right engine, thus increasing speed to the left.
Control + an horizontal arrow applies a thrust 5 times higher than
normal arrow (still for one second).

4. Playing
The game starts at a random (high) position, with a random vertical speed and
a reasonable vertical thrust. First adjust vertical thrust to get a reasonable
descending speed.
Then spot a flat landing area and adjust horizontal speed to reach it.
When approaching, reduce speeds, remain above the landing site (APP indicator)
with acceptable speeds (not red).
You land safely if within 75% within the speed limits and with at least 10% of
fuel remaining. Otherwise it is just acceptable (normal landing).
Reduce the vertical thrust when (or just before) contacting the ground.
When landed (LAND indicator), horizontal thrust has no effect.
You can then use the horizontal thrust to take off, or shut-down the engine,
which ends the game.
When the game ends, a message indicates if you lost or crashed the LEM, if you
landed it normally or safely.
You can then hit any key (except an arrow) to play again.
If you landed, then you start a new game, otherwise you restart the same game.
At any time, hitting escape aborts the game and quits.

5. Mechanics
The quantity of fuel affects the global mass so the effectiveness of thrust
increases when fuel dicreases. On the long term, the LEM tends to climb (or fall
slower) and each horzontal thrust burst affects horizontal speed more and more.
The fuel decreases proportionnaly with the vertical thrust and at each burst of
horizontal thrust.

6. Hints
Try to always descend: Quickly fix vertical rate then spot a landing area and
move horizontaly, fast if needed (more than the gauge). Visualise the
trajectory, anticipate the approach (what you see is speed, what you change is
acceleration).
Beware that the horizontal speed is nearly never nul, if needed, swap sides when
getting close to a side of the landing area. Also anticipate the changes of
vertical speeds, always remain on the "safe" side.
You will bump (APP then LAND then APP) if you are slowing down at excessive
rate (positive acceleration). The best landing is with a constant or slightly
negative acceleration. So, at the last time, reduce power (if it is safe).

7. Bugs
Any software has bugs. Please report any bug to malaise-at-magic.fr
If you think you landed properly but crashed, please check the speeds and "APP"
indicator before suspecting a bug. If the speeds are not both blue or the "LAND"
indicator is not set at the time the LEM contacts the ground, then it is a crash
(perhaps you could have prevented it).

